“And those Obsidians are only the elite. The Gray soldiers prowl the cities ensuring order, ensuring obedience to the hierarchy. The Whites arbitrate their justice and push their philosophy. Pinks pleasure and serve in highColor homes. Silvers count and manipulate currency and logistics. Yellows study the medicines and sciences. Greens develop technology. Blues naviaget the stars. Coppers run the beauracracy. Every color has a purpose. Every color props up the Golds.”

“Say we make his body perfect, there’s still one problem: we cannot make him smarter. Once cannot make a mouse a lion.”

“You have made me give up the hair Father gave me, the eyes Mother left me, the Color I was born to, so I will keep the name they granted me, and you can make it work.”

“Matyrs, you see, are like bees. Their only power comes in death.”

“ ‘If you are thrown into the deep and do not swim, you will drown,’ he says, and raises his thin eyebrows. ‘So keep swimming, right?’” – Roque to Darrow

“Sevro snorts. ‘What do you think I’ve been doing this whole time, you silky turd? Wanking off in the bushes?’ Cassius and I look at each other. ,’Kind of,’ I say. ‘Yeah, actually,’ Cassius agrees.”

“It all makes sense. The hate. The disgust. The vengeance. Cannibals eat their own. He called them cannibals. Pollux, Cassandra, Vixus – who are their own? Their own. Golden. Bloodydamn.Not gory. Titus said bloodydamn. No Gold says that. Ever. And he called it a slingBlade, not a reaper’s scythe. Oh hell. Titus is a Red.”

“ ‘The measure of a man is what he does when he has power.’ She laughs. ‘You mock him for Cicero and then spit out Plato.’”

“ ‘You haven’t been sleeping well,’ she says. ‘When do I ever?’ ‘When you sleep next to me. You cried out the first week in the woods. After that, you slept like a baby.’ ‘Is this you inviting me back?’ I ask. ‘I never told you to leave.’ She waits. ‘So why did you?’ ‘You distract me,’ I say.” – exchange between Mustang (Virginia) and Darrow

“Now the girl who sang Eo’s song by the fire. The girl who pulled me from the mud. The girl who curled beside me as the smoke swirled in our little cave. Brilliant Mustang, who would follow me out of choice.”